Welcome to this step where we are going to get an overview of the different RESTful services that
we are going to create in these series of videos. As we discussed earlier,
REST stands for representational state transfer. REST is just a style of how you design your
resources and how you expose them using HTTP. REST aims to make best use of HTTP.
So we would want to make the best use of whatever things that HTTP provides. Like
HTTP methods and HTTP status codes.
As we discussed earlier, the key abstraction is something called a resource.
Each resource would have a URI and we can have different representations for each resource.
These were the examples that we looked at. Creating a user we would want to do a post for slash users. Delete
a user, we would want to send a delete request to a URI slash users slash 1.
Similarly, get all users, we’d want to send a get request to slash users. And to get a specific user
we’d want to send a get request to slash users slash one.
Let's quickly look at all the RESTful web services that we would want to create in this specific course.
I would want to retrieve the details of all the users that are present.
It should be slash users. What request should I send? Should it be get, put, post? Which one should it be?
I want to get the detail so it should be a get request. Get to slash users.
Now I would want to create a user. I would want to create a new user.
How do I do that?
Think about it.
I’d need to do a post again to slash users.
I’d want to retrieve the details of a specific user. Few of the details of one user.
How do I do that?
Would it be sufficient if I say get and slash users?
This will get me a list of users not a specific user.
If I want to get specific user, I would need to pass in an Id. So something like Slash users slash 1
slash users slash 2.
So that’s what we need to do.
Now I would need to delete that user.
It’s very simple, right?
I need to send a delete request to the specific Id or this specific URI.
That’s cool. Now, this user can be a user of any application, right?
It can be a user of a social media application.
It can be a user of a magazine or whatever it can be. The domain we are looking at right now is a social
media application.
Let's consider a simple social media application. So a user makes a number of posts.
So the relationship between user to posts is one to many. A user over period of his life will make a lot of posts.
So the relationship is one too many.
I would want to extend the representation of resources to posts.
So if I want to retrieve all the posts for the user, how do I do that?
Think about it. I would want to retrieve all the posts for a specific user.
So first thing is it’s a retrieve.
So what should I do?
It should be a get request and I would want to get all posts for a specific user. So the first thing
is, I would need to get the user. That’s the user.
So I have a specific user.
And then I can retrieve all his posts. That’s simple right. So if I want to get all posts for a user
this is the URI.
And if I want to get, if I want to create a post for a user, so I would want to create a post for
a specific user.
So a user wants to make a post. How do I do that?
It’s basically, post slash user slash Id. To this URI we are going to send a Post request.
The last resource we would want to expose is to get the details of a specific post.
Think about it.
Can a post exist without a user?
If I say a slash post slash ….lets say post Id. Can a post exist without a user?
Actually not.
So when we are mapping resources, we also take that into consideration.
So, ideally the way we would need to map this is also put a user Id. Slash user, user id slash post slash
post Id. And we would need to send..
Obviously if you want do a retrieve, I would the send a get request. The most important thing to understand
is the fact that whatever we’re looking at is only the ideal scenarios. But when it really get down to
practical stuff,
you might need to have a few things differently done.
So if let's say I'm having an SSN. I don't want to send an SSN as part of my get request because if
it's part of the URI then everybody can see the SSN.
So, obviously these are just guidelines.
These need to be adapted to your specific needs.
What we'll do in the subsequent steps is we would start with creating a couple of Hello World Services.
And then we would move into creating all these social media applications resources.
So we would create users and services for their post as well.
While we move into next steps,
we'll also focus on things like validations, internationalization, exception handling, versioning your
services, content negotiation, generating documentation for these services and we’ll also talk about HATEOAS
and also about how to monitor these services.
Those are a few of the things that we would be discussing in the next steps. Until the next step, bye-bye.